---
---
# Intro to Impact
After two short weeks we have our first Monday of the school year (we're off again this Wendesday). The learning blogs activity has been running smoothly; 90% of students have an index page up on the GitHub pages site. They have not been able get their _posts directory up yet. I had debated giving them a repository to fork with the subdirectories setup; the trade-off is time. 

The [http://jmcglone.com/guides/github-pages/](tutorial) we are using is a little out of date and might not have been the best choice. In one step students are told explicity how to create a sub-directory by adding a slash in the name of the new file. In another step this isn't described explicity, but a reference to that first step is given. I like this, and realize that I need to name and assess this bit of content, and to talk about the difference between files and directories. We are also uncovering weakness in reading carefully; many of the questions I am getting are answered in the text. 

I find some students becoming frustrated or finding things confusing even though they are only being asked to copy and paste and name new files. I have seen this before, but don't know what to call it: the skill of ignoring or not worrying about things you don't understand and just taking the steps you can do with the confidence that you will be uncovering the knowledge as you go. I estimate that it will take two more full work periods (2 hours) for students to complete the tutorial. 

Today we are taking a break from the web page creation to review article about computing. Students are given a collection of articles and were asked to bring in their own. They review the papers for keywords related to computing that they generated themselves. Then they do 20 minutes of sustained silent reading. Then they do a Who, What, Where analysis and share with their group. In another lesson they will categorize their findings and begin to generate a concepts of computing word wall. They are annotating for words and phrases that they don't understand.
